{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fcharset128
Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset128 AdvTT6120e2aa;}{\f3\fcharset128 AdvTimes;}{\f4
\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fcharset128 GillSans-BoldCondensed;}{\f6\fcharset128
MathPackOne;}{\f7\fcharset128 AdvGulliv-R;}{\f8\fcharset128 AdvEPSTIM;}{\f9\fcharset128
Times-Roman;}{\f10\fcharset128 Times-Italic;}{\f11\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}{\f12\fcharset0
AdvTT6120e2aa;}{\f13\fcharset0 AdvGulliv-R;}{\f14\fcharset0 AdvTimes;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240\f0\fs22\kerning28 Normal
;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1440\margr1440\margb1440\headery720\footery720
\deftab720\pgnstart1\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0{\*\docvar{ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar
{ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StylePos}{-1}}\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs22\kerning28{\header\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1
\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs22\par}{\footer\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275
\slmult1\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs22\par}Man-Machine Integration: A call to
 discernment\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Steven Swab\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 NATS 490 C\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Sean Ho\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28 Word
 count: 4309\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\qc\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Man-Machine Integration: A call to discernment\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The human race has been making great advances in science and technology
 over the past few centuries, but our understanding of these technologies, or rather
 how to use them properly has not.  Welcome to the age of science, wherein the further
 development of science promises to address all the problems associated with the
 human condition.  Obviously, the Christian should not put his faith in science, 
nor can he believe that science holds the answers to poverty, hunger, pain, violence
 or death, yet this is the worldview which many scientists hold.  The Christian 
must evaluate those things which science produces, and understand them with regard
 to their Creator.  Therefore, when technologies are developed, Christians must 
use discernment in determining their uses, their benefits and consequences, and 
further apply the standards God has given to his children to them.  This essay seeks
 to understand and explore the ethics of the technology associated with man-machine
 integration.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Basic Technology:\tab\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240\fi720{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs22\kerning28 The field of human-machine integration is very broad, spanning
 multiple disciplines.  As a result it is necessary, for the sake of time, that 
only a portion of the actual technologies will be addressed.  The four areas of 
technology to be addressed are: Bionics, Neural Interfacing, Radio Frequency Identification
 and Thermal Induction.  It is also necessary to mention that this type of technology
 is still in its infancy.  The basic components required for its development are
 all currently available, but are not yet advanced enough to allow integration with
 the human body for an indefinite period of time.\line\tab The first field to address
 is that of bionics.  As an overview, bionics is a field in which human engineers
 try to replicate nature using mechanical engineering.  For example, in attempting
 to create a bionic human hand, a group of engineers would have to address how the
 hand moves, the functions of skin, tissue, ligaments and bones, and try to replicate
 each of them with mechanical equivalents.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The second field to address is that of neural interfacing, otherwise
 known as brain-machine interfacing.  Neural interfacing uses neural imaging and
/or pattern recognition in order to determine the desired action of a person.  There
 are two main types of neural interfacing: invasive and non-invasive.  Non-invasive
 methods use electroencephalography in order to determine the desire of an individual
. (Lebedev 536) This involves attaching electrodes to the scalp which record electrical
 signals which indicate different types of brain activity.  Then, based upon those
 records, a person can be taught how to control something using this type of interface
.  Non-invasive neural interfacing is less accurate than invasive interfacing, but
 also less dangerous, and is also easily removable.  Essentially, non-invasive neural
 interfaces are better if a person does not require an interface for a prolonged
 period of time. \line  Invasive neural interfacing involves the implantation of
 electrodes in order to record and evaluate the firing patterns of pools of neurons
 from inside the brain itself.  When these electrodes are connected to some other
 device, then an individual may be trained to control a device via the use of his
 mind.   The results of this type of training, for the moment, are limited to abstractions
 of the current human experience, and it has not been determined whether or not 
this technology will allow humans to interact with the world in new ways, at least
 on a sensational level. (sight, touch, etc.)  This process also requires brain 
surgery which is both dangerous and costly. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The third field is radio frequency identification, or RFID.  RFID
 uses radio signals tuned to specific frequencies in order to communicate.  There
 are two parts of an RFID system:  a sender and a receiver.  There are two types
 of RFID systems: active and passive.  In passive RFID, the sender emits a radio
 frequency, and the receiver is powered by that frequency.  The receiver then uses
 that power to return information to the emitter.  In active RFID, the sender emits
 information at a radio frequency, and the receiver accepts the information emitted
. (Harmon)  With passive RFID the receiver moves with the user and the sender is
 stationary.  In active RFID, the sender moves with the user and the receiver is
 stationary.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The fourth field which applies to man-machine integration is thermal
 induction.  For devices which require power to communicate from inside the body
, a continual source of power is needed.  In the case of the human body, it seems
 that thermal induction is the most practical choice.  Recent advances in this technology
 have implied that thermal induction within the human body may be possible on a 
high enough scale to power small devices. Ghovanloo & Najafi say this may be possible
 by leeching excess heat off of muscles in the body.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\tab The result of combining these four emerging technologies is 
the creation of devices which can aid the human race (or more likely the rich) overcome
 issues associated with inactive or missing limbs, unsteady hands, permanent injury
, etc.  Yet, this technology is not limited to merely restoring function, but also
 enhancing function.  And it is here, where ethical issues and dilemnas are discovered
.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 In order to give a better idea of the combined force of these technologies
, here are some examples:  Remote Mind-controlled cars, replacement of a lost limb
 using a bionic prosthetic controlled by the mind, Personal tracking devices, body
 monitors and manipulators, and controlling unmanned military vehicles from afar
. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Biblical examination of technology:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The Bible calls Christians to discern what is good, and stay away
 from what is evil.  Discernment is a major biblical theme which is connected with
 wisdom, knowledge and understanding.(Psalm 119:25, Prov. 10:13,17, 17:24, Hosea
 14:9)  Paul{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s prayer in Philippians 1:9-11 shows the true heart
 of why the Christian should seek discernment:  {\super 9}And this is my prayer: 
that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of insight, {\super
10}so that you may be able to discern what is best and may be pure and blameless
 until the day of Christ, {\super 11}filled with the fruit of righteousness that
 comes through Jesus Christ{\lang4105\emdash}to the glory and praise of God.\line
It is for the growth of love, in order to remain blameless before God, and in order
 to bring glory and praise to God. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Ethicality:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The main issues with the technologies presented arise from the fields
 of bionics and neural interfacing.  These two areas will generally be what are 
meant when using the term {\lang4105\u8220\'93}technology{\lang4105\u8221\'94} or
 {\lang4105\u8220\'93}implant{\lang4105\u8221\'94}\line  in this section.  In order
 to look at the ethicality of this technology two ideas must be examined: 1) The
 nature of the human person and 2) The reasons for the use of the technology.  Both
 ideas address different types of ethical questions.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240\fi-360\li720{\pntext 1)\tab}{\*
\pn\pnlvlbody\pndec\pnql\pnstart1\pnindent360{\pntxta )}}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs22\kerning28 The Human Reality:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\tab First, the age-old question of {\lang4105\u8220\'93}what is 
man?{\lang4105\u8221\'94} must be answered.  From a Christian perspective, man is
 the special creation of God, the highlight of all He created on earth, and created
 in His very image.  In order to answer this question well, we must look at the 
entirety of human life.  This entirety is made primarily from the combination of
 mind, soul, body, and the interactions of humanity with itself.  To address these
 topics, the beginning of the story of humanity must be examined.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 In Genesis 1, God creates the heavens and the earth and everything
 in them.    On the sixth day, after God had created all the animals, He called 
His creation good, but after He created man in His image He called it very good.  
There is something about the human being which improves the reality of every created
 thing.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 God created everything with great intention great detail.  It would
 make very little sense for God to create {\i ex nihilo} without intention, for 
the very nature of the creative enterprise implies intention.  This leads to the
 conviction that God created everything in its form for a specific purpose.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Many have looked at Genesis 1:26 and read only that God created 
man in His image, and have proceeded to debate about what that image actually entails
.  In John 4:24 it says {\lang4105\u8220\'93}God is spirit, and his worshipers must
 worship in spirit and in truth.{\lang4105\u8221\'94}  Therefore, if God is spirit
 then it would be reasonable to expect His image to be reflected in a spiritual 
nature, not a physical one.  Therefore, for the sake of simplicity, let us assume
 that being made in God{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s image means that we have intellect
, an immortal soul and the capacity to become more like God.  This poses no problem
, but it must be remembered that the human being is not in sum a spiritual being
.  That is certainly part of man{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s nature, but not the totality
.  There is also the physical nature of the human being, which must also be addressed
.  As has already been stated, God created everything in its form for a specific
 purpose, and it is reasonable to suggest that this also includes the physical human
 body which would be the vessel for the ones who were to bear His image.  It is 
not only a vessel or prison for the soul, but is also an integral part of the way
 the human being was designed from the very beginning.  In fact, the bible teaches
 the Christian to have respect for the body.  One instance of this is 1 Corinthians
 6:19-20 where Paul is speaking telling the Church in Corinth that the human body
 is the temple of the Holy Spirit, and that it is to be used to honour God.  To 
importance of the body to being human is emphasized by the fact that followers of
 Christ will be given new bodies in the resurrection.  One of the evidences of this
 is in John 20 when Jesus appeared to the disciples after his resurrection and showed
 that he did have a real body, and Thomas was able to touch him.  In Colossians 
1, Jesus is called {\lang4105\u8220\'93}the firstborn from among the dead,{\lang4105
\u8221\'94} and that Christians shall be made like Him.  Though the physical body
 will die, a new body will be given at the resurrection, therefore man will never
 exist without a body.  Then it is no overstatement to say that the body plays a
 significant role in what it means to be human.  Yet in saying this, the direct 
consequence for the human person is that there are certain God-ordained limitations
 in traditional human experience.  This simply points to another part of human design
 to be dependent on other humans.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The design of humans is to be relational.  From the very beginning
, God set in the heart of man the desire for relationship.  In Genesis 2:18, while
 Adam was still alone in his humanity, God said {\lang4105\u8220\'93}It is not good
 for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him.{\lang4105\u8221
\'94}  Thus, while relationship with God was inherent from the beginning, God also
 established relationship within humanity as well.  In fact, the theme throughout
 the Bible is about God{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s desired relationship with man, and
 man needing a relationship with Him.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Thus the Christian{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s view of his own humanity
 must include his mind, body, spirit and relationships in order to properly determine
 the effects of a serious change in part of what makes him human.  Now that the 
nature of the human being has been addressed from a Christian perspective, some 
ethical questions can begin to be answered.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 In understanding these fundamental truths of the human person, some
 of the proper and improper uses of this technology become apparent.  The proper
 use of this technology would involve restoring function to those individuals with
 missing or damaged body parts.  Ocular implants for those who are blind, a bionic
 leg for someone who lost one, a mind-controlled wheelchair for those who are tetrapalegics
.  The improper use would be that which encourages frivolity.   An example of frivolity
 might be replacing a working human hand with a neutrally-interfaced bionic hand
 with an automated Swiss army knife included.  Unless there is specific purpose 
or good reason as to why a part of the body should be replaced or why an individual
 should be given increased ability to control machines, the ability ought not be
 given to the individual.  The reason for this is mainly founded in the idea that
 there are God-ordained limitations on the human being, and the Christian should
 strive to be content with what God has given him. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28  If this view is accepted among Christians there is potential for
 great controversy.  The question at the center of this controversy would be what
 constitutes a {\lang4105\u8220\'93}damaged{\lang4105\u8221\'94} body part.  Where
 is the line drawn between functional and non-functional?  What if the body part
 is functional but cannot be restored to its original body function?  It might seem
 that these are circumstantial, but certain guidelines should be put in place.  
The difference between functional and non-functional is fairly straightforward:  
if the individual is unable to use the body part in question for its designed purpose
, then it is non-functional.  Conversely, if the individual is able to use the body
 part in question for its designed purpose, then the body part is functional.  Certainly
 more qualifications upon those statements could be made, but they are not intended
 to be used as legal guidelines.  The spirit of the statements is enough for the
 purpose of application.  When looking at functional and non-functional body parts
, the issue of impractical functionality.  This is where the body part has a degree
 of functionality, but it is impractical for the completion of everyday tasks.  
An example of this might be a man who has multiple sclerosis, located centrally 
in his fingers, trying to type on a traditional keyboard.  He is able to move his
 knuckles, but unable to feel or move his fingers.  In this case, he should be able
 to replace his fingers (or his hand in case the disease progresses) if he desires
, because while they have a degree of function, they disallow him from doing work
.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28    \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240\fi-360\li720{\pntext 2)\tab}{\*
\pn\pnlvlbody\pndec\pnql\pnstart2\pnindent360{\pntxta )}}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs22\kerning28 The Human Motivation:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The second issue which must be explored is the individual{\lang4105
\u8217\'92}s motivation for desiring the body enhancements. This section deals primarily
 with the enhancement of the human body, not the restoration, as restoration is 
a good and acceptable motivation.  The question remains, why does motivation matter
 with regard to the enhancement of the body?  The answer is that the motivation 
influences the use of the enhancement, and without the motivation the technology
 would not be sought after.  The human person desires many things, and while desires
 are good, the true nature of the desire is difficult to ascertain.  Jeremiah 17
:9 says, {\lang4105\u8220\'93}The heart is deceitful above all things and beyond
 cure.  Who can understand it?{\lang4105\u8221\'94}  In other words, what a person
 desires is not always good for him.  The point of examining a person{\lang4105\u8217
\'92}s desires is to ensure that the technology will not become a detriment to the
 person{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s spiritual or intellectual life.  If a misplaced desire
 is fulfilled, then the result is a misuse of the object of desire.  A person may
 desire an implant for the sake of laziness or comfort, but the reality is that 
one implant will never be enough to sate such a desire.  The result is that the 
person is very likely to continue to exchange his body for convenience, and by so
 doing show contempt for the body which God has given him.  This, of course, is 
a simplified line of reasoning, but the essence of the argument is valid.  The underlying
 truth of the argument is this: If the motivation for implantation is discontentment
 with the body, (with exception to damaged or non-functioning human bodies) then
 the person should not be enhanced.  There must first be contentment with how the
 human being is made, so that the person may also be content when he is enhanced
.       \line If there are good and bad motivations for being enhanced, then how
 do you differentiate between them?  There may be some motivations which fall outside
 the designation of good or bad, being a combination of both, in which case a person
 should defer to the wisdom of those individuals in the church who know God and 
practice godliness in their lives.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28  That being said, what do invalid motivations look like?  These 
motivations are primarily centered on the individual, and would be primarily aimed
 at circumventing personal weaknesses.  For the Christian, weakness is not something
 to be ignored or despised, but addressed and persevered.  When Paul asked God to
 remove the thorn in his flesh, God replied {\lang4105\u8220\'93}My grace is sufficient
 for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.{\lang4105\u8221\'94}(2 Corinthians
 12:9)  For this reason, Christians must accept their personal weaknesses, and not
 only try to remove them, but rely on God and persevere through them.  Even though
 weakness is undesirable, it points the Christian to God, and causes him to rely
 more fully upon Him.  For example, a short-sighted person may be reminded of his
 dependence upon God because when he awakes, he is unable to see the world clearly
 without his glasses.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The problem with being motivated by weakness is that the purpose
 is to improve the individual, instead of enabling him.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28  For example, a man who is beaten by others might want to use implants
 so that he could defend himself.  The desire to defend oneself is good, but using
 implants to achieve that goal is not acceptable.  The root of this problem is not
 in physical weakness, but in societal cruelty.  Thus, while the implants would 
help the man being beaten for a time, those who beat him would find another to beat
 and the problem itself would not be remedied. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 In contrast, what do valid motivations look like?  Valid motivations
 are centered upon benefiting others, and enabling a person to perform a task more
 effectively. (Charter for Health Care Workers)  This is because the purpose of 
the enhancement is not in order to mask personal weakness, but to help the individual
 be more effective in what they are already doing.  An example of this might be 
found in policing.  It would be beneficial for a police officer to have enhancements
 so that he could catch criminals more effectively, and reduce the risk of his own
 injury or death.  This is acceptable because the police officer does his job for
 the sake of others, and the enhancements would help hi m do so more effectively
.  While this does not address the deeper issue of crime, it does allow the deeper
 issue to be addressed.  The function of police officers is to enforce the law, 
not to change it.  Therefore, for the deeper issues of crime to be addressed, the
 lawmakers will have to address the law.  The difference between the beaten man 
and the policeman is that one is personal, and one is occupational.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Implants should not be used to address the symptoms of deeper societal
 problems, but rather to address the deeper problems themselves, if possible.  In
 the case of the beaten man, technology can only shift the problem onto others, 
not solve it, and thus it is a personal problem.  In the case of the police officer
, the technology aids him in his occupation, so it addresses an occupational need
.  Implants are not an easy solution or remedy to human problems or weaknesses.  
They ought not to be viewed as improvements upon the human body, but rather as very
 effective tools.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Thus in looking at the human person as a whole, and the motivations
 for using implants, an ethical guideline is set in place.  By no means is it a 
complete ethic, but deals with the conceptual issues of the technology, in relation
 to a Christian worldview, which must be addressed before it is used.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Relationships:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The issue of human relationships was alluded to earlier, and it 
will be discussed briefly here.  Most human relationships require an element of 
personal experience, and this experience allows or disallows people to interact 
well with each other.  The use of implantable technology would influence human experience
 in its scope and in its ability to be related between individuals.  This has far
 reaching consequences, which inhibit a person from relating to others in the present
 or in the past.  This is not a problem introduced exclusively by the technology
, but is rather emphasized by it.  For example, if an enhanced person understood
 himself to be superior in some way to an unenhanced person, he might begin to have
 contempt for that person.  In this way, human relationship has deteriorated due
 to an individual{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s personal pride in his enhancement.  A parallel
 example more apparent in modernity would be how some people view people from ancient
 times as intellectually inferior or ignorant, and view people from the present 
time as intellectually enlightened.   Certainly the present age has more information
 and observations about the world, but this has no bearing on the intellectual capabilities
 of those who came before.  As a result of this {\lang4105\u8220\'93}intellectual
 comparison{\lang4105\u8221\'94} between the modern and ancient world, some individuals
 do not have the ability to relate to the thinkers of the ancient world.  In the
 same way, the Christian must understand that tools (or enhancements) are not to
 his own credit, but allow him to use his abilities more fully.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Apologetics:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The issues described so far deal with an ethic which can only be
 supported from a Christian worldview, however, not all are Christian.  In realizing
 this, Christians will be required to give an apology or defense of why they restrict
 their use of this technology.  While the primary reasons for a Christian to do 
so remain in his worldview, the apology consists of reasons why a non-Christian 
would also act in the same manner.  An argument for remaining bodily independent
 from corporations could be used as the basis for an apologetic.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 RFID technology is primarily one of passing information wirelessly
 and requires a medium through which this information must be transferred.  This
 medium would most likely be via large corporations or governments.  The medium 
gives those in control of it access to the personal information of the individual
, and allows them to use it for their own benefit.  There are many arguments against
 the centralization of information in governments or corporations, as among other
 things, it is viewed as an infringement of privacy and civil liberties.(Albrecht
, McIntyre)  Further, the access to information via the RFID chip is not fully encrypted
, anyone with the right kind of emitter/receiver could access the data from the 
chip.(p199 Albrecht, McIntyre)  It would require a lot of faith in the government
 and/or corporations in order to accept that they would use the information responsibly
 and respect the privacy of those using it.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 A note concerning contentment:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Contentment is not a new concept for the Christian, it is something
 to be desired and pursued.  As always, contentment is not found in possessions 
or ideas, but rather the acceptance of one{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s gifts and abilities
, the rewards of one{\lang4105\u8217\'92}s labour, and the desire to be all that
 one is able to be.   In view of this, Christians need to understand body enhancements
 as something which aids them in doing what they were already capable of doing, 
and not as a means to become something that they are not or to accommodate some 
trait or skill which they lack.  1 Timothy 6:6-9 says, {\lang4105\u8220\'93}\~{\super
6}But godliness with contentment is great gain. {\super 7}For we brought nothing
 into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. {\super 8}But if we have food
 and clothing, we will be content with that. {\super 9}People who want to get rich
 fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that 
plunge men into ruin and destruction.{\lang4105\u8221\'94}  The principle in this
 passage is money, however it displays a truth which can be applied to body enhancements
.  They cannot cause you to be content.  The acquisition of more leads to the desire
 for more.  Contentment is an active choice, a conscious thought and a safeguard
 for a person against himself.  Body enhancements will prove useful and desirable
, and therefore be seductive.  Christians must be aware of their call to be content
 with what they have, and particularly not to acquire body enhancements without 
an appropriate cause.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 Bringing it all together:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs22\kerning28 The BMI, bionics and RFID technologies offer a promising future.  
When combined, these technologies allow for the creation of tools which restore 
or enhance human body function.  This offers great hope for the restoration of those
 with lost limbs or faulty body parts.  The Christian is called to both embrace 
this technology and scrutinize it.  If he is to use this technology, then it must
 be for the sake of fulfilling his responsibilities more excellently, with proper
 motives, and with due consideration of how it will affect the ways he interacts
 with others.  The desire for its use must not come out of selfishness, ambition
 or ego, but rather from the desire to do all things to their best ability.  They
 are to do this for the sake of others and in order to honour God.  Therefore, Christians
 are called to discern the nature of their own desires, and to test desires of others
.  Not everyone who wants enhancements should be permitted to receive them, as there
 are few Christians who could qualify.  The implementation of this technology in
 the Christian community is secondary to the pursuit of godly lives, and it is imperative
 it remain as such.  The hope is that the Christian community might be able to lead
 the ethics movement for body enhancements and neural implants, but it cannot do
 so if the technology negatively impacts the spiritual and social life of the user
.  If care, support and discernment are used by those who employ this technology
, then Christians may be able to implement these technologies on a wider scale.  
This technology could be extremely useful and influential, but Christians would 
first have to use it to heal, and only afterwards to examine proper, godly enhancement
.{\f0\lang4105\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28 Bibliography
:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Bartels
, Jess et al(2008) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Neurotrophic electrode: Method of assembly
 and implantation into human\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 motor
 speech cortex{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {\ul The Journal of Neuroscience}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Bawa, Raj & Johnson, Summer(2007) \u8220\'93{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0 The Ethical Dimensionsof Nanomedicine\u8221\'94 {\ul Med Clin N Am}{\f0\lang1033
\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Carmena
 et al (2003) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Learning to Control a Brain {\lang4105\endash
} Machine Interface for Reaching and Grasping by Primates{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {
\ul PLOS Biology} <http://biology.plosjournals.org/perlserv/?request=get-document
&doi=10%2E1371%2Fjournal%2Epbio%2E0000042&ct=1> (2008 10 20)\par}

\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
\u8220\'93{\f4\lang4105\kerning36 Charter For Health Care Workers\u8221\'94 <{\fs22
http://www.lifeissues.net/writers/doc/hc/index.html> (2009 02 12)}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Dobelle
, William(2000) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Artificial Vision for the Blind by Connecting
 a Television Camera to the Visual Cortex{\lang4105\u8221\'94}\line ASAIO Journal
.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Dyens
, Ollivier. {\ul Metal and Flesh: The Evolution of Man: Technology Takes Over.}  
Cambridge: MIT Press, 2001.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Final
 Cut, The. {\ulnone Dir. Omar Naim. Lions Gate Entertainment, 2004.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f4\lang4105\fs20\kerning28 Ghovanloo
, M. & Najafi, K.(2004) \u8220\'93Fully integrated wideband high-current rectifiers
 for inductively powered devices\u8221\'94 {\ul Solid-State Circuits}{\f0\lang1033
\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af5\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Graichen, Friedmar et al(1999) \u8220\'93{\dbch\af6\loch\af0\hich
\f0 Hip endoprosthesis for in vivo measurement of joint force and temperature}\u8220
\'93 {\ul Journal of Biomechanics\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs20\kerning28 Harmon
, Craig K.,(2002) {\fs22\u8220\'93}Part 1: Active and Passive RFID: Two Distinct
, But Complementary, Technologies for Real-Time Supply Chain Visibility{\b\fs22\u8221
\'94 } <http://www.autoid.org/2002_Documents/sc31_wg4/docs_501-520/520_18000-7_WhitePaper
.pdf>  (2009 01 12)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs20\kerning28 Ho, 
Dean et al. (2009)\u8220\'93{\dbch\af5\loch\af0\hich\f0 Engineering Novel Diagnostic
 Modalities and Implantable Cytomimetic Nanomaterials for Next-Generation Medicine
\u8221\'94 {\ul Biology of Blood and Marrow Transplantation }}{\lang1033\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Lebedev
, Mikhail & Nicolelis, Miguel.(2006) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0 Brain{\lang4105\endash}machine interfaces: past, present and future{\lang4105
\u8221\'94}   {\ul Trends in Neuroscience\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 <http
://www.lehigh.edu/~inbios21/PDF/Fall2007/Brain-Machine_Interface.pdf>  (2008 10 
20)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af7\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Masters, Amelia & Michael, Katina(2006) \u8220\'93{\dbch\af8\loch
\af0\hich\f0 Lend me your arms: The use and implications of humancentric RFID\u8221
\'94 {\ul Electronic Commerce Research and Applications}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 McFarland
, Dennis et al.(2008) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Emulation
 of computer mouse control with a noninvasive brain{\lang4105\endash}computer\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 interface{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {\ul Journal of Neural Engineering
\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Merriam
-Webster Online Dictionary. {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Human being{\lang4105\u8221\'94
}   <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/human>   (2008 10 22)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Oxford
 Online Dictionary.  {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Human being{\lang4105\u8221\'94} <http
://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/humanbeing?view=uk>    (2008 10 22)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Pel\u225\'e1ez, Antonio L\u243\'f3pez & Kyriakou, Dimities(2008) 
\u8220\'93Robots, genes and bytes: technology development and social\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 changes towards the year 2020\u8221\'94 {\ul Technological Forecasting
 & Social Change}{\f0\lang1033\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs20\kerning28\u8220
\'93Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act\u8221\'94 {\lang1033
Canadian Government.  }\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 <http
://laws.justice.gc.ca/en/ShowFullDoc/cs/P-8.6///en> (2008 10 25)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Pezaris
, John & Reid, R. Clay(2007) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Demonstration
 of artificial visual percepts generated through thalamic microstimulation{\lang4105
\u8221\'94} {\ul PNAS}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Reichman
, James B. {\ul Philosophy of the human person} Chicago: Loyola Press, 1985.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Serruya
, Mijail Demian & Kahana, Micheal J. (2008){\lang4105\u8220\'93}Techniques and devices
 to restore cognition{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {\ul Behavioural Brain Research}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Stanley
, Garrett et al (1999) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}Reconstruction of Natural Scenes from
 Ensemble Responses in the\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Lateral
 Geniculate Nucleus{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {\ul The Journal of Neuroscience} <http
://people.seas.harvard.edu/~gstanley/publications/stanley_dan_1999.pdf>  (2008 10
 20)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Valdastri, Pietro et al.(2007) \u8220\'93{\dbch\af9\loch\af0\hich
\f0 An implantable ZigBee ready telemetric platform for {\i\dbch\af10\loch\af0\hich
\f0 in vivo }monitoring of physiological parameters\u8221\'94 {\ul\dbch\af9\loch
\af11\hich\f11 Sensors and Actuators{\f0\lang1033\par}}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Warwick
, Kevin & Ruiz, Virgine(2008) {\lang4105\u8220\'93}On linking the human and machine
 brains{\lang4105\u8221\'94} {\ul Neurocomputing\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af7\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28 Wise, Kensall D.  et al.(2008) \u8220\'93High-density cochlear implants
 with position sensing and control\u8221\'94 {\ul Hearing Research}{\f0\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af12\hich\f12\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\ul\dbch\af9\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af7\loch\af13\hich\f13\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af9\loch\af11\hich\f11\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af3\loch\af14\hich\f14\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af3\loch\af14\hich\f14\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af12\hich\f12\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af5\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af5\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af5\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang4105
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs20\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl275\slmult1\sa240{\f0\lang4105\fs22\kerning28\par
}

}